# Introducing the ListView Widget

The ListView displays a list of items, and the main thing is the ListView sets up scrolling for you automatically, so you can scroll and view the items in the list which do not fit on the screen. You can think of the ListView as a scrollable list of widgets arranged linearly. ListView is the most commonly used scrolling widget. It displays its children one after the other in the scroll direction that you have specified.

You can see that this reference is a StatelessWidget called MyListView, and MyListView is something that I have defined here in this file. MyListView extends the StatelessWidget base class. It's a widget with no mutable state.

A ListView can have any number of children and it displays this children by default as a vertical scrolling list. This EdgeInsets constructor allows you to specify padding in pixels on the left, top, right, and bottom, that is LTRB. Every child of this ListView is a simple Text element. I have a total of five Text widgets.

Its content is Bread and Dairy and it has a certain TextStyle. It has a fontSize of 32 and a fontWeight of bold, and every other element within this ListView is a Text element with different text but the same style. I'm going to go ahead and run this code so that we can view this list of Text widgets within our app. And here is what the list looks like. Now, this looks like a very simple list. This is something you could have achieved with a column widget. I'm going to try and scroll on this list and you'll find that, well, it doesn't scroll. Well, that's because we don't have enough elements to overflow the screen. The ListView is within the body of the scaffold and that takes up the entire dimensions of the screen. I'm now going to wrap this ListView within a container with a fixed height.

So, I right-click on the ListView, Show Context Actions Wrap with widget. So, I'm going to Wrap with the Container widget. Now, a Container will also fill up the screen space of the scaffold unless you explicitly set its height and width. I've set the height of the container to be 150 along with a little bit of padding. Once the app reloads, the entire list cannot be seen. You'll have to scroll to see the remaining items. We have a small container within which the list is embedded, so you can see that scrolling just works for a ListView. You didn't have to do anything special to get it to work.

I'm now going to update the code that I have here on screen to improve the look and feel of this ListView. I want a list of text elements, but I want them to be displayed within colored boxes. I still return a ListView from the build method. 

I've set the container background to be a certain color. Alignment.center will center the child of the container, which is a Text object with the text Breakfast and Dairy. Every list item here is a container with a certain background color and some embedded text representing different shopping categories. I'm going to run this app and you can see the contents of our list. Again, the list does not overflow the screen, so there will be no scroll available. 

Now, I'm going to set up a helper method that will allow me to create a container element that will be part of a list. This will allow me to create as many containers as I want for the different shopping categories. I'm going to primarily change the code in the MyListView StatelessWidget. So, I'm going to get rid of my current MyListView and I'm going to add an import statement for the dart:math library. I'll be using that library for random color generation. I'm going to paste in the code for the new ListView that allows us to create as many containers as we want to be elements in our list.

These items are categories that I want to be elements in the list that I create. These items are used as stand-in for shopping categories in my Insta store app. I've defined the createContainers method, which just takes in a list of strings and creates container elements to display those strings with different colored backgrounds.

The createContainers helper method allows me to eliminate the boilerplate code that I had for the different elements of the list. I'll just define the code once and I can create multiple list elements with that code. I've instantiated the Text widget that displays the string that is part of the list of strings I've passed in. Now, the rest of the code should be familiar to you. I'm going to go ahead and run this app, and since we've populated the list with a large number of containers, you can see them nicely displayed, all with different colors. You can scroll down and see how scrolling works. When a ListView scrolls vertically, the elements of the ListView expand to fill up all of the horizontal space available, and the height of each element in the ListView depends on the content that you've stored in there.

Now, with a single property scrollDirection, you can have your ListView scroll horizontally. 

and you can see that I have a horizontally scrolling ListView. I'm going to now scroll horizontally and show you the contents. Observe that every ListView element expands to fill up the vertical space in a horizontally scrolled ListView, and the width of each element depends on the size of the content that you have within the ListView. Every element here is of a different width because the length of the text within each element is different. Now, in this horizontally scrolling ListView, I'm going to specify a height and the width for each Container element. The list items that make up the ListView.

For a horizontally scrolling list, you'll find that the width property of the list item applies to the list elements. That is, every element here has a width of 150 pixels, but the height property is entirely ignored. You can see that the height of these elements expand to fill up the entire vertical space. Now, let me just change the scrollDirection of this list. Instead of horizontal, I'm going to set it to vertical. That is the default scrollDirection. On reload take a look at the elements of the list.

The height property has been applied to every element of this list. The width property is totally ignored. The width of every element expands to fill the space available. However, the height property is adhered to. Each element here has a height of 200 pixels.

